docs/upgrading.rst, before:

=========
Upgrading
=========

Upgrading from 0.5.0 to 0.6.0
=============================

There is one potentially breaking change in 0.6.0: Due to a regression 0.5.0
did not return `None`/`null` values anymore (as Eve does and 0.4.1 did). That
means your API might return slightly different responses after upgrading to
0.6.0 than it did before. If it's really a breaking change for you depends on
your API specification and your clients.

Upgrading from 0.4.1 to 0.5.0
=============================

There are two breaking changes in 0.5.0:

1. Eve-SQLAlchemy now handles related IDs and embedded objects with just one
   field in the payload, just as Eve does. This will most likely affect your
   consumers, too!
2. We introduced a new way to register your SQLAlchemy models with Eve. So far
   there is no backward compatible wrapper for the former ``registerSchema``
   decorator.

Let's look at the needed changes in more detail. To illustrate both changes, we
will look at the following models (the full code is in the `examples`
directory):

.. code-block:: python

    class People(CommonColumns):
        __tablename__ = 'people'
        id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
        firstname = Column(String(80))
        lastname = Column(String(120))
        fullname = column_property(firstname + " " + lastname)


    class Invoices(CommonColumns):
        __tablename__ = 'invoices'
        id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
        number = Column(Integer)
        people_id = Column(Integer, ForeignKey('people.id'))
        people = relationship(People, uselist=False)

1. Related IDs and embedding
----------------------------

Getting an invoice in 0.4.1 will return the `people_id` in the payload:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:24:58 GMT",
        "_etag": null,
        "_id": 1,
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:24:58 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people_id": 1
    }

And, if you embed the related ``People`` object, you will get:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
        "_etag": null,
        "_id": 1,
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": {
            "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
            "_etag": null,
            "_id": 1,
            "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
            "firstname": "George",
            "fullname": "George Washington",
            "id": 1,
            "lastname": "Washington"
        },
        "people_id": 1
    }

But this was actually not how Eve itself is handling this. In order to follow
the APIs generated by Eve more closely, we decided to adopt the way Eve is
doing embedding and use the same field for both the related ID and the embedded
document. Which means starting in 0.5.0, the first response looks like this:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:52:20 GMT",
        "_etag": "26abc30d70f57de186d9f99a7192444fcf538519",
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:52:20 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": 1
    }

And the second one (with embedding):

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
        "_etag": "8a1121cacb77a21f9ff3b5a85cfba0a501a538ea",
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": {
            "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
            "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
            "firstname": "George",
            "fullname": "George Washington",
            "id": 1,
            "lastname": "Washington"
        }
    }

2. Registering of SQLAlchemy models
-----------------------------------

In 0.4.1, you were most likely doing something along the following lines in
your `settings.py`:

.. code-block:: python

    ID_FIELD = 'id'
    config.ID_FIELD = ID_FIELD

    registerSchema('people')(People)
    registerSchema('invoices')(Invoices)

    DOMAIN = {
        'people': People._eve_schema['people'],
        'invoices': Invoices._eve_schema['invoices']
    }

There are good news: manually (and globally) setting ``ID_FIELD``, including
the workaround of setting ``config.ID_FIELD``, is not required anymore. The
same applies to ``ITEM_LOOKUP_FIELD`` and ``ITEM_URL``. While you can still
override them, they are now preconfigured at the resource level depending on
your models' primary keys.

The required configuration for the models above simplifies to:

.. code-block:: python

    from eve_sqlalchemy.config import DomainConfig, ResourceConfig

    DOMAIN = DomainConfig({
        'people': ResourceConfig(People),
        'invoices': ResourceConfig(Invoices)
    }).render()

*Note:* If you've modified ``DATE_CREATED``, ``LAST_UPDATED`` or ``ETAG``, you
have to pass their value to ``DomainConfig.render()``. They are needed during
rendering the final ``DOMAIN`` configuration.

.. code-block:: python

   DomainConfig(domain_dict).render(date_created=DATE_CREATED,
                                    last_updated=LAST_UPDATED,
                                    etag=ETAG)

Commit message:

Add note to upgrading.rst about new ETag format

docs/upgrading.rst, after:

=========
Upgrading
=========

Upgrading from 0.6.0 to 0.7.0
=============================

With Eve v0.7, the ETag format was changed to comply with RFC 7232-2.3. Be
aware the ETag header values are now enclosed with double-quotes.


Upgrading from 0.5.0 to 0.6.0
=============================

There is one potentially breaking change in 0.6.0: Due to a regression 0.5.0
did not return `None`/`null` values anymore (as Eve does and 0.4.1 did). That
means your API might return slightly different responses after upgrading to
0.6.0 than it did before. If it's really a breaking change for you depends on
your API specification and your clients.

Upgrading from 0.4.1 to 0.5.0
=============================

There are two breaking changes in 0.5.0:

1. Eve-SQLAlchemy now handles related IDs and embedded objects with just one
   field in the payload, just as Eve does. This will most likely affect your
   consumers, too!
2. We introduced a new way to register your SQLAlchemy models with Eve. So far
   there is no backward compatible wrapper for the former ``registerSchema``
   decorator.

Let's look at the needed changes in more detail. To illustrate both changes, we
will look at the following models (the full code is in the `examples`
directory):

.. code-block:: python

    class People(CommonColumns):
        __tablename__ = 'people'
        id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
        firstname = Column(String(80))
        lastname = Column(String(120))
        fullname = column_property(firstname + " " + lastname)


    class Invoices(CommonColumns):
        __tablename__ = 'invoices'
        id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True)
        number = Column(Integer)
        people_id = Column(Integer, ForeignKey('people.id'))
        people = relationship(People, uselist=False)

1. Related IDs and embedding
----------------------------

Getting an invoice in 0.4.1 will return the `people_id` in the payload:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:24:58 GMT",
        "_etag": null,
        "_id": 1,
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:24:58 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people_id": 1
    }

And, if you embed the related ``People`` object, you will get:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
        "_etag": null,
        "_id": 1,
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": {
            "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
            "_etag": null,
            "_id": 1,
            "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:39:25 GMT",
            "firstname": "George",
            "fullname": "George Washington",
            "id": 1,
            "lastname": "Washington"
        },
        "people_id": 1
    }

But this was actually not how Eve itself is handling this. In order to follow
the APIs generated by Eve more closely, we decided to adopt the way Eve is
doing embedding and use the same field for both the related ID and the embedded
document. Which means starting in 0.5.0, the first response looks like this:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:52:20 GMT",
        "_etag": "26abc30d70f57de186d9f99a7192444fcf538519",
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:52:20 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": 1
    }

And the second one (with embedding):

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
        "_etag": "8a1121cacb77a21f9ff3b5a85cfba0a501a538ea",
        "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
        "id": 1,
        "number": 42,
        "people": {
            "_created": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
            "_updated": "Sat, 15 Jul 2017 02:54:44 GMT",
            "firstname": "George",
            "fullname": "George Washington",
            "id": 1,
            "lastname": "Washington"
        }
    }

2. Registering of SQLAlchemy models
-----------------------------------

In 0.4.1, you were most likely doing something along the following lines in
your `settings.py`:

.. code-block:: python

    ID_FIELD = 'id'
    config.ID_FIELD = ID_FIELD

    registerSchema('people')(People)
    registerSchema('invoices')(Invoices)

    DOMAIN = {
        'people': People._eve_schema['people'],
        'invoices': Invoices._eve_schema['invoices']
    }

There are good news: manually (and globally) setting ``ID_FIELD``, including
the workaround of setting ``config.ID_FIELD``, is not required anymore. The
same applies to ``ITEM_LOOKUP_FIELD`` and ``ITEM_URL``. While you can still
override them, they are now preconfigured at the resource level depending on
your models' primary keys.

The required configuration for the models above simplifies to:

.. code-block:: python

    from eve_sqlalchemy.config import DomainConfig, ResourceConfig

    DOMAIN = DomainConfig({
        'people': ResourceConfig(People),
        'invoices': ResourceConfig(Invoices)
    }).render()

*Note:* If you've modified ``DATE_CREATED``, ``LAST_UPDATED`` or ``ETAG``, you
have to pass their value to ``DomainConfig.render()``. They are needed during
rendering the final ``DOMAIN`` configuration.

.. code-block:: python

   DomainConfig(domain_dict).render(date_created=DATE_CREATED,
                                    last_updated=LAST_UPDATED,
                                    etag=ETAG)
